A consolidated project-context document covering the current local architecture, data model, UI behaviour, implementation
constraints, and the intended AWS deployment direction.
1. Project purpose
The project is a self-hosted web dashboard called 1p Challenge Automator, built around the classic 1p-a-day savings
challenge. Day 1 is £0.01, day 2 is £0.02, and so on. The dashboard shows progress, today's transfer, the next transfer,
accumulated savings, and challenge/settings controls.
The current priority is local/self-hosted development. The longer-term plan is for each user to deploy their own
backend/application into their own AWS environment, rather than having one centrally hosted backend handling every
user's financial data.
2. Current project structure
File
Purpose
dashboard.html
style.css
Main page structure. Loads style.css, data-store.js and app.js.
Dashboard styling, responsive layout, controls, graph and toast/popup styling.
data-store.js
DataStore abstraction and single source of truth. Loads JSON data/settings and exposes state/update/save helpers.
app.js
Rendering, calculations, event handlers, graph, quotes, toasts, settings and challenge interactions.
data.json
../amounts.json
Challenge/history data, including historical amounts and completion information.
Amounts stored in pence plus completion status.
../settings.json
Settings/state: dates, transfer time, email, current amount, pause state, restart date, etc.
3. Frontend loading and separation of concerns
The HTML loads the stylesheet and then the JavaScript in this order:
dashboard.html fi style.css
dashboard.html fi data-store.js fi app.js
app.js relies on DataStore being established by data-store.js. The intended separation is presentation in HTML/CSS, UI
behaviour/rendering in app.js, state/persistence abstraction in DataStore, and eventually secure persistence/banking operations
behind an AWS backend.
4. Data model
DataStore is the frontend single source of truth. Settings currently include fields such as:
startDate — DD/MM/YYYY challenge start date
endDate — challenge end date
transferTime — daily transfer time
nextTransferDate — configured next transfer date
userEmail — progress-email address
currentAmount — accumulated amount in pence
challengePaused — pause flag
restartDate — scheduled restart date when applicable
Money is represented in pence in JSON/state and converted to pounds for display. The Saved so far figure comes from
settings.json.currentAmount.
5. Main progress UI
The Progress view contains a random saving quote, Today's transfer, Next transfer, Saved so far, a progress bar, a line-graph
alternative, and a radio toggle between the two graph views. A small Refresh control sits beside Saved so far.
The line graph is generated from all history points, while markers are deliberately sparse. The intended interval is:
const pointInterval = Math.max(2, Math.ceil(history.length / 8));
A marker is shown at interval points and always on the final point. SVG native point tooltips show DD/MM/YYYY and £amount.
Markers use r=4 and #2dd6b8; the graph line uses stroke-width 2.5.
6. Transfer scheduling
Today's transfer and Next transfer are separate cards. The configured nextTransferDate is read from settings, with a guard that
moves a date which is today or already past forward to tomorrow. This fixed a previous issue where a scheduled transfer
incorrectly appeared as today at 01:00.
Due-date wording is dynamic: today, tomorrow, in 2 days, or on DD/MM/YYYY, with the configured transfer time where
appropriate.
7. Skip transfer
Quick Settings provides Skip next transfer. It immediately shows a 'Next transfer skipped' toast, hides/disables the relevant skip
action, shows a blue 'Skipped' status, and advances the next transfer date by one day. Unskip restores the original date and
clears the skip state. Persistence is attempted through DataStore.
8. Email and transfer-time popups
Change email uses a custom toast containing title/subtitle, close, validated email input, error area, Cancel and Save email.
Change transfer time uses the same visual pattern with a native input type="time" and HH:MM validation.
9. Pause / restart challenge
The pause state is represented by settings.json.challengePaused being true. A pause popup offers Until I restart the challenge
or Restart on a specific date. The second option reveals a date form; the chosen date is stored in restartDate.
While paused, the restart date becomes the next transfer shown on the main page, and the following day becomes the transfer
after that. An indefinite pause has no restartDate.
Settings status becomes Active (ends on ...), Paused (restarts on ...), or simply Paused. While paused, the Settings button
becomes Restart challenge; restarting sets challengePaused to false and clears scheduled restart state as appropriate.
10. Responsive/UI requirements
On desktop, Today's transfer and Next transfer appear side-by-side; on smaller screens they collapse to one column. Mobile
accessibility/layout has been explicitly considered. The 'Powered by Starling Bank API' attribution remains beneath the title on
mobile, with Starling text in #51ffeb. Material Symbols are used for action icons.
11. Current persistence abstraction
DataStore.updateSettings(partial) merges the partial settings into in-memory state, notifies the UI and invokes save(). This
abstraction is useful because app.js does not need to know whether persistence is local JSON, S3, or an API.
12. Intended AWS architecture
The long-term concept is:
User browser fi static frontend fi user's AWS backend/API fi user's AWS storage/secrets/services fi Starling API
The frontend should remain largely static and should not contain sensitive banking credentials. Dynamic operations should be
mediated by backend code where authentication, authorization, persistence, or external API credentials are involved.
13. S3 + Lambda direction
The current JSON-file approach is expected to map naturally to S3. Backend/Lambda code can rewrite the relevant JSON data.
A browser does not need a full page refresh when JSON changes: JavaScript can fetch current state and update the DOM
dynamically.
Two broad patterns have been discussed: (1) frontend JavaScript directly reads an appropriately authorized JSON object, or (2)
frontend calls an API/Lambda endpoint which reads/updates S3 and returns current state. For private financial data, the second
pattern is the safer conceptual boundary because the backend controls access to S3 and secrets.
Lambda/backend responsibilities are expected to include controlled settings/state persistence, challenge calculations where
appropriate, scheduled transfer operations, Starling API interaction, progress-email operations, and other actions that should not
depend on trusted client-side JavaScript.
14. Secrets and security boundary
The Danger Zone already refers to wiping stored AWS data including details held in Secrets Manager. This establishes the
intended direction that sensitive credentials belong server-side. The static frontend should never be treated as a secure secret
store.
15. AWS deployment model
The distinctive deployment goal is one AWS environment per user. This avoids making the developer's infrastructure a central
custodian of every user's banking credentials and savings data. The exact provisioning/deployment workflow has not yet been
fixed.
The exact choices for API Gateway, Lambda, S3 bucket/key structure, authentication/authorization, scheduling service, Starling
credential lifecycle, and automated per-user provisioning remain open design decisions unless explicitly decided later.
16. Development constraints and preferences
• Preserve existing working JavaScript; avoid unnecessary reconstruction or reformatting.
• Whenever a JavaScript file is changed, provide the entire updated JS file in the response, not snippets.
• Keep one canonical copy of each project file; ignore filename suffixes such as (1), (2), or encoded equivalents and overwrite
the canonical file.
• Make minimal changes for requested features and avoid breaking unrelated behaviour.
• Treat the current local JSON implementation as a development-stage persistence mechanism that can later be
replaced/connected to AWS.
17. Overall mental model
Think of the application as four layers: HTML/CSS for presentation; app.js for interaction and rendering; DataStore for state and
persistence abstraction; and the eventual AWS backend for secure persistence, scheduling, secrets and Starling integration.
The goal is for the UI to update individual pieces of state dynamically without requiring a complete page reload.
Scope note: This document records established project context and clearly labels AWS details that have not yet been finalized,
rather than inventing an exact cloud topology.